# Mobile Device Accessories

## Stylus

### Digital Stylus

It is a more advanced writing tool for a mobile device. The stylus communicates directly to the device. It has pressure sensitivity, programmable buttons to enable different functions. Must be compatible with the tablet. Apple iPad uses an Apple Pencil.

---

## Headsets

Hands-free audio earphone and microphone.

### Wired

They have USB connectivity commonly but when they don't they connect to the computer via the audio jack or a **3.5 mm TRRS (Tip-ring-ring-sleeve) connector**. An older style connector for audio, Apple iPhone now can use the lightning port.

### Wireless

Most wireless headsets connect audio and your microphone via Bluetooth. Usually powered by battery.

---

## Speakers

Mobile audio speakers for higher fidelity because the mobile device speakers are not as sufficient. It is usually battery powered and portable. Wireless connectivity usually connected by Bluetooth which allows you to take that stereo sound and move it anywhere around the phone.

---

## Camera/Webcam

Many phones and tablets have a camera built into it already. It is externally connected through USB on desktops, internally built-in on laptops/tablets/phones. Once you connect the camera you are able to start using it with multimedia applications, conferencing, photo utilities.

---

## Docking Station

If you work in an office and use a laptop, you might be unplugging and re-plugging in a lot of wires. Connecting video monitors, networks, printers, speakers can be a hassle every day so using a docking station eliminates that hassle. With a docking station you can connect and disconnect your laptop with ease. It extends existing laptop interfaces. You can add additional functionality.

---

## Port Replicator

Similar to a docking station, but much more portable. It connects multiple adapter cards (MicroSD and SD), HDMI, multiple USB ports, and network connection usually connected by a USB.

---

## Trackpad

Replaces an external mouse, useful when working in tight areas. Very common on laptops. There are external trackpads that are battery powered and Bluetooth connected. You can drag and tap or use multiple finger input for right-clicking, zooming, and window control. You can enable and disable the trackpad to avoid inadvertent mouse clicks and movements.

---

## Drawing Pad

An external digitizer that uses an active stylus that connects to your device over Bluetooth or some other connection. Very precise input. Supported across many operating systems.