# Mobile Device Networks

## Cellular Networks

If you've ever had a mobile phone you've probably also referred to it as a **cell phone**. This term, cell, comes from the cellular networks that we use to be able to communicate through these phones. These operate by having antennas that allow us coverage to separate land into sections called "cells" with certain frequencies. You are able to enable or disable voice and/or data from your mobile device. Airplane mode disables all communication to cellular networks. Could also disable data but keep some features on.

---

## 3G Technology

Cellular technology really started taking off with 3G technology introduced in 1998. Upgraded data connectivity meaning incremental 3G updates improved speeds of connections. Usually several megabits per second.

Bandwidth improvement allowed new functionality:

- GPS
- Mobile television
- Video on demand
- Video conferencing

---

## 4G and LTE

### Long Term Evolution (LTE)

A 4G technology based on the GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) and EDGE (Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution). Standard supports download rates of 150 Mbit/s.

### LTE Advanced (LTE-A)

Standard supports download rates of 300 Mbit/s.

---

## 5G

5th generation cellular networking launching launched in 2020. Significant performance improvements at higher frequencies. Eventually 10 gigabits per second. Slower speeds from 100-900 Mbit/s of total through put.

Having that much bandwidth for a single device allows a lot more functionality to a device. We are able to take these Internet of Things devices and send much larger data much faster over these 5g wireless networks and with that there is faster monitoring on the cloud and to get notifications faster. Which allows us to send a lot more into the cloud for processing.

---

## Wi-Fi

Just as our cellular technologies have increased in speed and function 802.11 wireless has had some similar advancements. These are high speed 802.11 networks that we commonly use in our homes and offices. This allows us to have very high speed through put that don't require a wired connection.

It requires a local access point that everyone connects to that allows everyone to connect to the network. Limited distance coverage is a given.

May also support voice communications but that requires support from your voice coverage carrier. May be very useful when cellular coverage mat not be available.

---

## Hotspot

Turn your phone in to a Wi-Fi hotspot. You are your own personal router and extend the cellular data network to all of your devices.

Dependent on phone type and provider. May require additional costs.

---

## Subscriber Identity Module (SIM)

A unique identifier for all cellular devices. It is often a tiny physical card in a mobile phone. You can replace the SIM card and the phone has a new number.

Contains information for the carrier and user. It contains information on:

- SIM ID
- Phone Number
- Cellular network information
- Storage space for contacts, messages, etc. (_Think of transferring data from an old phone to a new one._)

### eSIM

eSIM is a physical part and is an embedded SIM card that is inside the device and cannot physically be removed. Many devices support multiple SIM's.

You can have options to transfer in multiple eSIM cards on mobile phones that use it and transfer data between each other or have multiple phone numbers or SIM profiles.

---

## Bluetooth Pairing

To connect a Bluetooth device commonly uses built-in security through the use or verification of a PIN. Pair the devices one time. Future connections should be automatic.

### Bluetooth Pairing Process

1. Enable Bluetooth on both devices.
2. Set devices to discoverable mode.
    - May require key sequence on Bluetooth device.
3. Select discovered device.
    - Many devices may appear!
4. Enter or confirm the PIN
    - Should be the same on both devices.
5. Test connectivity.
6. Devices should now communicate.

---

## GPS (Global Positioning System)

Created by the U.S. Department of Defense it is over 30 satellites currently in orbit to position your location on Earth. It uses precise navigation by having at least 4 satellites be able to see you at one time. It determines location based on timing differences like longitude, latitude. altitude.

Mobile device location services and geo=tracking use GPS like Apple/Google Maps for directions. It determines physical location based on GPS, Wi-Fi, and cellular towers.